[*mpdx User Manual*](README.md) **:** [*Configuring mpdx*](mpd17.md)
**:** [*Traffic accounting*](mpd33.md) **:** *NetFlow*\
**Previous:** [*Traffic accounting*](mpd33.md)\
**Next:** [*IP Accounting*](mpd35.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 4.12.1. NetFlow

NetFlow is a protocol for exporting aggregated traffic information with
UDP packets flow. NetFlow is generated by `ng_netflow(4)` node. To
enable NetFlow on a particular interface `netflow-in` or `netflow-out`
options should be used. Best practice is to enable netflow on every
interface in system in only one direction: incoming for \"ingress\" flow
or outgoing for \"egress\" flow.

**Note:** Netflow configuration is global for the daemon, so it must be
done before first bundle get connected.

**Note:** This feature is available only on FreeBSD 6.0-RELEASE and
newer. NetFlow v9 supported only on FreeBSD 9.0-RELEASE and newer.

**`set netflow peer ip port`**

:   Set destination IP address and port, where NetFlow export datagrams
    will be sent. This options is important to have working NetFlow.

**`set netflow self ip port`**

:   Set optional local IP and port binding, to make NetFlow datagrams
    originate from a specific source.

**`set netflow version ver`**

:   Choose NetFlow version to export. Supported options are 5 or 9.

    Default is 5.

**`set netflow mtu bytes`**

:   Set export interface MTU to build packets of specified size (NetFlow
    v9-specific).

    Default is 1500.

**`set netflow template time packets`**

:   Modify time and packet timeouts to announce data flow templates
    (NetFlow v9-specific).

    Defaults are 600 and 500.

**`set netflow timeouts inactive active`**

:   Modify inactive and active timeout values. For more information, see
    `ng_netflow(4)` manual page.

**`set netflow node nodename`**

:   Use existing `ng_netflow(4)` node instead of creating a new one.

**`set netflow hook number`**

:   Use `ng_netflow(4)` node\'s hooks starting from specified number.
    For detailed information about naming of hooks, see `ng_netflow(4)`
    manual page.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[*mpdx User Manual*](README.md) **:** [*Configuring mpdx*](mpd17.md)
**:** [*Traffic accounting*](mpd33.md) **:** *NetFlow*\
**Previous:** [*Traffic accounting*](mpd33.md)\
**Next:** [*IP Accounting*](mpd35.md)
